# Covid19-Predection-Project

## Introduction : 
In terms of infrastructure, finance, industry, manufacturing, and many other tools, our society is in an era of incredible attempts to fight against the spread of this life-threatening disorder. Artificial Intelligence (AI) researchers are reinforcing their ability to develop mathematical paradigms using nationally dispersed data to investigate this pandemic. 

This project aims to apply the machine learning models by using the real-time data from Kaggle Novel Corona Virus 2019 Dataset and Predict the future cases in the U.S.A for understanding the need and necessity of available resources and also to implement required actions accordingly to reduce the growth of coronavirus.
In this pandemic investigation and forecasting, machine learning algorithms play an important role. Machine learning approaches help to identify the patterns of the epidemic. As a result, an immediate response might be prepared to prevent the spread of COVID-19 across society of the virus. In addition, machine learning models are used to predict the spread of COVID-19 across society and identify collective actions by the use of real-time data from Kaggle Novel Corona Virus 2019 Dataset.

Observing the trends of Covid19 spread across the world and predicting the confirmed cases using various machine learning algorithms and determine the best model by looking into the root mean square error.

## Statement of the Problem : 
Understand the trends and predict future cases in the USA using different machine learning algorithms(SVM, K-means, Linear regression, ARIMA) by observing the growth factor and mortality rate. Initially clean the data according to the need and apply the growth rate and mortality rate formula and observe the trends and then using them apply different ml algorithms for predicting the future. 

## Literature Review:
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause a human being to become severely ill. The latest outbreak of coronavirus disease was announced in late December 2019. Long-term short-term memory (LSTM) model training is highly dependent on the variance in the values, with the fact that the greater the deviation, the more time it takes to practice. The number of cases was scaled to suit the LSTM model using min max scaler and the projected cases were later rescaled to the original range using invert minmax transform from "sklearn" python library.
The findings show that a minimum root mean square error was generated by polynomial regression (PR)
 
The Global Data Science Project (GDSP) for COVID-19 is an international team that works on different facets of society, including mobility, health, economics, education and online activity. 
COVID-19 has had a major influence on our communities through the direct and indirect consequences of policy interventions to tackle the spread of viruses. 
The number of international flights fell overall to about 88 percent in March due to travel restrictions. In particular, the number of flights connecting Europe decreased sharply in mid-March after the United States announced travel restrictions to Europe and the EU and participating countries decided to close borders, a decrease of 84 percent compared to 10 March. 
By analyzing posts on social networking sites such as Twitter, we established the increased concern for mental health. The number of posts with #depression on Instagram doubled in early April 2020, which may reflect the increase in awareness of mental health among Instagram users.
 
## Objectives of the Study:
To determine the future confirmed and death cases we can easily estimate the workload on the health care department and then accordingly they can plan and adjust the resources or even find more ways to get the resources for example in the upcoming days there is going to be more number of confirmed cases so the need for ventilators or other supplies to cure things can be adjusted. Having an estimate would help a lot. If the confirmed case rate is going to decrease then the researchers could focus more on finding a vaccine for the virus. 
 
## Data Collection:
[Novel-corona-virus-2019-dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/sudalairajkumar/novel-corona-virus-2019-dataset)-
This data set contains columns like ObservationDate-date format from 01/22/2020-09/23/2020, Province/State, Country/Region, Last Updated, Confirmed, Deaths, recovered. 
Exploratory data analysis (EDA) and Hypotheses for the Study:
Initially imported the data and observed the data to make necessary transformations for analysis like converting the observation date column format to DateTime format(yyyy-mm-dd) and dropped the column S.No which is of no use.

## Importing Necessary Packages
import warnings
warnings.filterwarnings('ignore')
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
!pip install plotly
import plotly.express as px
import plotly.graph_objects as go
from plotly.subplots import make_subplots
import numpy as np
import datetime as dt
from datetime import timedelta
from sklearn.model_selection import GridSearchCV
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
from sklearn.metrics import silhouette_score,silhouette_samples
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression,Ridge,Lasso
from sklearn.svm import SVR
from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error,r2_score
import statsmodels.api as sm
from statsmodels.tsa.api import Holt,SimpleExpSmoothing,ExponentialSmoothing
!pip install fbprophet
from fbprophet import Prophet
from sklearn.preprocessing import PolynomialFeatures
from statsmodels.tsa.stattools import adfuller
!pip install pmdarima
from pmdarima.arima import auto_arima
std=StandardScaler()
